In today's lesson, we're going to talk
about what a terminal emulator is and
a few different methods on how to
gain access to a Linux system.
If you already access to a Linux system,
feel free to skip ahead.
A terminal is a hardware device that
allows you to enter data into a computer
and for
that computer to display data back to you.
In the past, terminals were
typically connected to computers or
servers via a cable of some sort,
typically a serial cable.
Terminals themselves actually
look like computers.
They have a keyboard for entering in data,
a display to display the data back.
The big difference between a terminal and
a computer is
that a terminal is worthless unless it's
connected to a real computer or a server.
This is why you'll sometimes hear
terminals referred to as dumb terminals.
Today, terminals are obsolete.
We still need to enter
data into a computer and
allow a computer to display data back
to us, but the technology has changed.
Instead of using a terminal to connect
to a Linux server, what we do today
is use a terminal emulator application
that acts as if it were the terminal.
You can use a terminal emulator
application to communicate with your local
computer.
For instance, if you were running
Linux as your primary desktop and
you are using a graphical user interface,
you could start up a terminal
emulator application in order to
interact with a command line of Linux.
If you are using Windows As you primary
desktop, you could start a terminal
emulator application and connect to
a Linux server over the network.
In order to practice the skills
you'll be gaining in this course,
you're going to need
access to a Linux system.
One quick and easy way to do that
is to open up a web browser and
visit http://simpleshell.com.
Http://simpleshell.com allows you
to connect to a Linux server.
You just click start my session,
and a terminal emulator opens up.
Each session is limited to 15 minutes, so
if you just wanna spend just a couple of
minutes trying out a new command that
you're learning about, this would
be a great way to practice that.
A couple of alternatives to simpleshell
include webminal like terminal,
except for web.
Webminal.org.
And linuxzoo.net.
If you have your own website, you very
well may have access to a Linux account.
Many times here,
hosting providers use Linux
as the operating system which
runs their web servers.
Look at your web hosting company's
documentation and look for
the words shell access or SSH.
SSH stands for secure shell.
And SSH is a network protocol.
It allows you to take your
terminal emulator application and
connect it over the network
to a Linux server.
Shared web hosting is
typically inexpensive.
It's usually only a few dollars a month.
Some of the same companies that provide
web hosting services also provide
virtual private servers,
sometimes called VPS for short.
These virtual private servers run
complete operating systems and
they are not shared So, only you have an
account for this entire operating system.
And you can do anything with this
virtual server that you could a real
physical server.
Again, since it's not shared and
you have full control over the server,
you can reboot it at will.
This is not such a good thing if you're
in a shared hosting environment.
That's why your accounts in those
environments have limited access.
If you like the idea of having full
control over a virtual server,
you could look into
cloud computing as well.
In cloud speak,
a virtual server is called an instance.
You'll hear people talking
about spinning up an instance.
That simply means they've deployed
a virtual server running a complete
operating system.
One of the main differences between cloud
providers and traditional web hosting
providers that provide shared hosting and
virtual private servers
is that cloud servers or cloud instances
can be programmatically deployed.
That means you can create software
that starts cloud instances or
stops cloud instances.
In our case,
we just want access to a Linux server so
you don't have to take advantage of
those features if you don't want them.
Just know that VPS, a virtual
private server or a cloud server or
a cloud instance are all the same thing.
Another way to get access to a Linux
server is to run a Live Linux
distribution.
A Live Linux distro typically runs
from CD or USB key or a DVD-ROM.
You insert the bootable media,
start your hardware and
in just a few minutes you are placed into
a live running Linux operating system.
The reason why they are called Live Linux
distributions is they do not write to your
hard drive.
They are not installed on your computer.
They are just live.
So they run as long as the power is on.
The minute you reboot your computer
your operating system is gone,
the advantage of using a Live Linux
distribution is that you
can try something out without
modifying your computer.
The disadvantage of using a Live Linux
distribution is that when you're using it
you don't have access to your
primary operating system.
For example, if you were watching
this course on your Windows pc and
you wanted to try a few new Linux
commands that you've learned about,
you would have to stop your Windows
operating system, put in a CD, and
power up the computer again
in order to boot into Linux.
It's important to keep in mind that
Live Linux Distro shouldn't be used to
evaluate the performance of Linux.
When you're running a Live distro, you're
typically running it from a storage device
that is a lot slower than
your normal hard drive.
A few Live Linux Distributions that
are fairly popular include Fedora,
Knoppix, Puppy Linux and Ubuntu.
Live Linux distros by default do
not modify your system in anyway.
They won't write to your hard drive for
instance.
However most Live Linux
distributions do include a utility
to install the distro to your hard
drive if you decide you like it.
Of course you can always
install Linux on a computer.
If you have an extra laptop, or
an old PC that you're not using anymore,
then took a Linux distribution and
install it directly on that.
If you do decide to install Linux
yourself, don't worry if there are things
in the installation process
that don't make sense, or
that you don't fully understand.
Typically, the defaults are pretty safe.
Just accept the defaults and
you should be good to go.
The last method I'm going
to talk about today
is using pre-installed Linux
images with VirtualBox.
This is the method that I recommend
you use with this course.
VirtualBox is virtualization software.
It allows you to run entire operating
systems within your current
operating system.
Your current operating system is called
the host or the host operating system and
the virtual machines that you'll
be creating are called guests.
Like Linux, VirtualBox is free and
open source software.
VirtualBox runs on Mac,
Windows and even Linux.
In the next part of the course, I will
show you how to install VirtualBox on
windows and also how to install it on Mac.
From there I will show you how to get
the pre-installed Linux images and
how to import those into VirtualBox.
Then we can get started with
the main course content.
The ways to get access to a Linux system
include going to simpleshell.com,
in your web browser,
using a hosting provider,
be that a shared web host,
a VPS host or a cloud host.
You can install Linux on hardware, and
you can also run Linux
inside a virtual machine.